>> We have all heard of
the myths and the legends
of our history.
But is there another story?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
According to archaeology,
the Great Pyramid
was constructed by a pharaoh
with the name of Cheops.
Now how do we know
that Cheops was
the constructor of the pyramid?
Have you any inscriptions
where he said I did it?
Do we have any sculptors?
Do we have a mummy of Cheops?
Nothing at all.
Two thousand years
ago, and even more,
some of the historians of
that time were in Egypt.
For example, Diodorus Siculus,
Strabo, Plutarch, Herodotus,
they were all in Egypt roughly
2,000 years in the past.
And they all were standing
before the Great Pyramid.
And they all asked the
local priest there,
who made this pyramid?
And the local priest
said, we don't know,
because it was made
before the Great Flood.
So how do we come to
the name of Cheops?
Herodotus, the Greek
historian roughly 450
BC, he was four years in
Egypt and he wrote two books
about it.
In his two books,
he makes clearly
differences between the thing
which he sees, which he smells,
which he touches, and the
things which are told to him.
In the second book
of history he says,
someone told me that
the Great Pyramid
was constructed by a tyrant
with the name of Khufu.
Khufu in the Greek
word for Cheops.
It's the same figure.
So only because
Herodotus has come up
with this name of Khufu,
Cheops, archeology
said, oh, now we have a name.
All true, all of the other
historians 2,000 years
in the past, they say no.
It's wrong.
Diodorus Siculus, who was a
writer who published 43 books
2,000 years ago, history books.
He knows the books of Herodotus
of his Greek colleague.
And he said no,
Herodotus is wrong.
It was not the Cheops who
made the Great Pyramid.
It was a pharaoh with
the name of Saurid.
Saurid is the same figure which
the Hebrew society calls Enoch.
Here we are again.
Enoch was the first man who
disappeared in a fiery chariot
from the Earth.
Enoch was the seventh patriarch
before the Great Flood.
Now ancient Arabian writers,
you find the story, for example,
in the book of al-Masudi or
Ibrahim Abdul al-Maqrizi.
They said it was
not Cheops, it was
Saurid before the Great Flood.
But Saurid is the same figure
which the Hebrew call Enoch.
And Enoch was before
the Great Flood.
We have a real problem
with the Great Pyramid.
You see, the building is
composed of roughly about 2
and 1/2 million stone blocks.
Now every technology
needs a history.
You have to learn how to move
blocks, how to chisel them,
how to cut them, how to
transport them, et cetera.
If we take Cheops as the
constructor of the pyramid,
Cheops' father was Sneferu.
His grandfather came
directly out of Stone Age.
They were no time, history,
evolution of technology
before the Great Pyramid.
If we accept Enoch, yes.
Because Enoch was teached
by the extraterrestrials
in construction and
all kinds of things.
Now we really have a problem.
You see, technology, human
technology needs an evolution.
For example, our
forefathers, they
learned that you needed a
stick so that you can hold
the animals a certain distance.
Later, they learned how.
A bow, a spear appears.
They learn slowly that there
are hard stones and soft stones
that you can chisel.
They learned evolution
in technology.
Now the pyramid of
so-called Cheops
inside has different
shafts and rooms.
In the meantime, due to
our modern knowledge,
we know there is at least
one kilometer of shafts
inside the Great Pyramid.
That means planning.
Planning means
engineering design.
You have to calculate.
But Cheops' father,
Stone Age people.
There was no time for evolution
of technology for the planning
of the engineers.
So if it was Enoch
before the Great Flood,
then it makes sense.
Al-Maqrizi, Ibrahim
Abdul al-Maqrizi,
an Arabian historian says
that inside the pyramid
and under the pyramid,
there we would
find thousands of
books written by Enoch
for the future of mankind.
In our time, grace
to modern technology,
we find always more rooms in the
pyramid and under the pyramid.
So we localize them.
Now the critics
may ask, OK, if we
know where these rooms
are in the pyramid,
why don't we go
there and open it?
Because you cannot.
The shafts which
lead to the rooms
are very small, about 14
centimeter on one side.
You cannot grab in there.
It's not possible.
You need modern
technology to go in there.
And this modern technology
is used at the moment.
In the Great Pyramid of Egypt,
we have roughly three rooms.
The upper room they
call the King's chamber.
The lower room they call
the Queen's chamber.
Under the pyramid
in the rock there's
another room which they
call the Unfinished chamber.
Now in the so-called
Queen's chamber,
which is the room
in the middle, there
are two holes in the
walls on the north side
and on the south side.
And some 25 years ago, one of
my friends, a German engineer,
his name is Rudolf Gantenbrink,
he constructed a small robot.
And he received the
permission from the Department
of Archeology that
he could climb
with this robot in
one of these shafts
from the Queen's chamber.
According to archeology, they
were absolutely convinced
that the shaft is only
about 8 meter long,
and then it will end.
They say it's just a
symbolic shaft made
that the soul of the pharaoh
may disappear to the stars
up there.
So eight meter,
archeologists said.
Now some 25 years ago, the robot
of my friend Rudolf Gantenbrink
entered into the
south shaft, which
begins in the Queen's chamber.
There were two meters
first, and then you
start climbing
inside the pyramid.
The robot climbed
higher and higher.
The eight meter was
passed long away.
The archaeologists could not
understand what was going on.
Always there were
different sorts of stone.
There were granite, there were
alabaster, there was sandstone.
Then always the robot
passed some doorway,
stones that looked like doors.
Climbing up more and more.
Finally, 32 meter,
42 meter, 52 meter.
And at 62 meter, the
robot, because he
had a camera on the robot,
came to a little door.
Absolute little, because
it's only 14 centimeters
sideways on each side.
So a little door which had
two bracelets, obviously,
two metallic bracelet.
One of the metallic
bracelets was broken down.
They found it down on the
left on the right side.
So the robot had a laser.
And the laser went
under the door.
So we knew for sure
behind this door
there must be something
more behind this door.
So all of this is roughly
25 years in the past.
We heard about it in the press.
Some stories were
shown on television.
What happened since then?
What's happened since the
25 years of the measuring
robot of Rudolf Gantenbrink?
A few years later, the American
National Geographic Society
came also to Egypt.
And they have
constructed a new robot.
The new robot had a drill.
And with this,
they drilled a hole
into what we know
as a little door.
And they made an
international television show.
They said now for
the first time they
will put a camera
through this hole
so that the world's eyes could
see what's behind the door.
And sorry, that
was the next lie.
The photographs they
made already before.
The public, they knew exactly
it was nothing behind this.
It was empty.
Otherwise, they would never have
shown it to the world public.
Anyhow, there was this
first door with the hole.
And the laser made a measuring
at about 22 centimeters
behind it, behind the
first door is another wall.
Now time passed,
18 years passed.
And a rich man
from Singapore came
to the Department of
Antiquity and said
he has a new possibility
to destroy the wall.
The first door, 20 centimeter,
the second the wall.
He can destroy it by
waves, by sound waves, etc.
But they did not
accept this suggestion,
the Department of Antiquity.
Finally, they gave
him permission
to make a very, very
small hole into this wall.
But only so small that you can
pass through with an endoscope.
You see endoscope,
with an endoscopy
you go into your body.
Now of course, this small hole
was drilled into the wall.
And they put this camera
of an endoscope through it.
And the endoscope made
hundreds of photos.
The computer put
these photos together.
And what's behind it?
The next room.
Again, that means technology.
Technology means planning.
You have to plan from the
Queen's chamber these two
walls, you have to
plan these openings.
Because on both sides you can
climb in with robot 62 meter.
You have to plan
the room behind it.
All this means engineering
calculation, engineering
design.
And all this does not fit
to the time of Cheops.
Cheops was roughly to
2,500 BC, a little more
than Stone Age time.
The evolution of technology
was not ready for that.
If Enoch was the constructor,
then it would fit.
Although Enoch is
older than Cheops,
Enoch was the seventh patriarch
before the Great Flood,
so even older.
It doesn't matter,
because Enoch was teached
by the extraterrestrials.
And he says in his books, they
learned me all kinds of things,
including construction
and engineering things.
So then it makes sense.
Today maybe we could
reconstruct the pyramid.
But it would be so extremely
expensive that no company would
do such a thing.
You know, 2 and 1/2
million stone blocks fit
together exactly in the
way they have done it there
with all these rooms.
And there are not only the
three rooms, the Queens chamber,
the King's chamber, the
chamber under the pyramid,
there are many other rooms.
That all is really
complicated, too complicated
for a pharaoh like Cheops.
By the way, it is not my opinion
that the extraterrestrials
constructed the pyramid.
No, it is the humans who did it.
All the dirty work
the humans made.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
But the engineering,
the planning
comes from the
extraterrestrials.
But the work itself
was done by us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So the Great Pyramid of Egypt,
the big one and the two smaller
ones, they exist for
mankind since eternity.
The Great Pyramid is one of
the miracles of the world.
When the historians arrived
in Egypt some 2,000 years ago,
the Great Pyramid
was already there.
All the historians of
the past were standing
before the Great Pyramid.
It was a gigantic
monument for mankind.
That's why all the
questions come up.
Who did it?
Why?
For what purpose exactly?
I again suggest they
did it for the gods.
The pyramid, the Great
Pyramid was not a tomb.
They never found a grave inside,
not the grave of Cheops at all.
So it was a heritage for
the future of mankind.
Inside the Great Pyramid we
will probably sooner or later
find books, which tell us how
it was some long, long time
before the Great Flood.
Nobody knows when the Great
Flood was, but at least 5,000,
6,000 years in the past.
Directly under the
Great Pyramid is a room
which is known since eternity is
called the Unfinished chamber.
The Unfinished chamber, you
have a shaft going down.
And the shaft is
119 meters long.
You have to go down
really on your knees,
because it's only
about one meter high.
And you come to the
unfinished chamber,
there are no writings,
no chiseling, nothing.
It's just primitive
out of the rock.
No one understands why this
unfinished chamber is there.
It makes no sense.
Herodotus, the Greek historian
who was there around 450
BC, he said that under the
pyramid there is a lake, a sea.
And the sea has
absolutely clear water.
And in the water there is a
sarcophagus with the remains
and some gifts of
the god Osiris.
One has to know Osiris is
the oldest god in Egypt.
And Osiris is the same
thing which in the firmament
is Orion.
So Orion and Osiris
is the same even
in writing in hieroglyphics.
It's always there.
Now Herodotus the
great historian
says under the pyramid is
a lake with clear water
and a sarcophagus with
some gifts of Osiris.
Archaeologists never
took this for true.
They said, what is
Herodotus telling us?
It is impossible that
under the pyramid
there is a lake,
because the pyramid is
found in the Sahara Desert.
There's no water, nothing.
Some years ago they
found, in fact, the lake
under the pyramid.
And of course, I was down there.
We were climbing down there.
First you come into a
small room and there
are stairs, two stairs.
Now you go down there,
right down in a shaft.
The shaft is big
enough for two ladders.
Of course, the ladders
are from our days.
Then you come to a small
room which is chiseled out
of the rock, inside the rock.
And there you see seven
niches, but only in two niches
are some sarcophaguses.
One is made out of black basalt.
Basalt is volcanic stone.
There are no volcanoes nearby.
We don't know why they had
to use basalt sarcophagus.
And the other one is granite.
Now from this point
you again go deeper,
another shaft into the rock.
Now the first shaft was as
large enough for two ladders.
The second shaft has
only room for one ladder.
It's smaller.
You have to really--
with your elbows
you touch the walls.
Then you come under the place.
You make a right angle.
And you see, in fact, a lake.
It's not a big lake.
It's some sort of creek
with absolutely clear water.
And in the water there
is a sarcophagus.
We measured the
sarcophagus, we made
photographs of the sarcophagus.
So the Greek
historian was right.
He was correct saying that
there is a lake under there.
Now modern, today's
archaeologists I asked,
what did you find
in the sarcophagus?
They told me nothing.
Now I don't know if this
is the truth or not.
But the fact is
the Greek historian
Herodotus told us about
a lake under the pyramid,
and he was right.
All through archeology
for centuries
said this is impossible.
The same Greek historian
said that the gods came down
11,240 years ago.
Now archaeologists do again not
accept the 11,240 years ago,
because history of Egypt is
roughly 3,000 years BC, but not
11,000 years BC.
They disagree with Herodotus.
But I suggest Herodotus
is right and we are wrong.
The pyramid must be
much, much older.
It was constructed
before the Great Flood
by a technology which Enoch
had from the extraterrestrials.
The planning, the
engineering planning
came from the extraterrestrials.
Some of the tools came
from the extraterrestrials.
The dirty work was done
by us, by the humans.
In my opinion, the pyramid
was a kind of treasure.
A treasure created before the
Great Flood for the humans
after the Great Flood, for us.
Again, in this connection I
have to come back to Enoch.
Enoch is the seventh patriarch
before the Great Flood.
Enoch learned the language
of the extraterrestrials.
He was in their spaceship.
He was teached by them.
Before Enoch left our planet
Earth, He went back to Earth
again to say goodbye to all
his children and his wife,
he had many wives at that time.
And he met his son Methuselah,
the same biblical Methuselah
which becomes roughly
900 years old.
And he gives Methuselah
all his writings.
There must be about
300 books which Enoch--
because we have
one book of Enoch.
And there he says, I
wrote about 300 books.
He gave these 300 books to his
son Methuselah with the order,
keep the books carefully for
the generation after the Great
Flood.
They knew that the
Great Flood was coming.
They construct the pyramid.
They knew that pyramid would
survive the Great Flood.
And in the pyramid we
will find some libraries.
Sooner or later, with
our modern technology
we will find the
library of Enoch.
And then we have the
shock of the gods again.
Because Enoch tells us what
really went on at that time
before the Great Flood.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Obviously, the
pyramids were something
like artificial mountains.
They felt to be
nearer to the gods.
In my opinion, the
pyramid in Egypt,
the big one, Cheops'
pyramid is a treasure.
Inside we will find information,
writings of the time
before the Great Flood.
One of my friends, Robert Boval,
who is a brilliant historian,
he suggested that the
three pyramids in Egypt
are linked with
the belt of Orion.
And the God Osiris
is the same as Orion,
so I could absolutely
agree with Robert Boval.
And it makes sense.
Orion is Osiris.
Now Orion's wife was Isis.
Again, Isis is Sirius.
So we have Orion and we
have Sirius on the star
on the heaven.
Now we have some shafts
in the Great Pyramid.
And on certain dates,
I guess its March 21st,
these two shafts point on one
side to the belt of Orion,
but on the other side
to the star of Sirius.
Which makes sense.
It has all to do with astronomy.
And astronomy, again,
has to do with the gods.
And the gods, of course, were
visitors from outer space.
There is no way out,
because they were teachers.
They taught our ancestors in
astronomy, in mathematics.
They were the
teachers from heaven.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I hope that we find, at least
in the Great Pyramid in Egypt,
writings, a whole
library, the library
of the so-called
prophet Enoch, which was
living before the Great Flood.
And in which give the order
to his son Methuselah,
construct the building to
hide all these books written
by your father's hand.
That's my suggestion.
Its time that humans
learn to understand
that the teachers of
the past were the gods.
And the gods were
extraterrestrials.
I'm Eric von Däniken.
Join me next time on
Beyond the Legend.